README.md, before:

# workshop-week-2

## **Online Circuit Simulation**

### **1.	Simulation 1: Simulating Series Battery Combination**

**1.1.	Simulation**

Refer to the given circuit diagrams and mentioned steps to simulate an electric circuit with a serial combination of batteries.

<img width="362" height="190" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/413c199b-6001-428a-8e6d-302e0a8a8b82" />

Figure 1: Series Battery Combination Circuit Diagram	 

<img width="328" height="323" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/734c0e1a-2aae-4bf2-92bc-2b793fb43951" />

Figure 2: Series Battery Combination Simulation Circuit

``Note: The colour of the wires can be customized as your own preferences.``

> - Step 1: Select and drop four batteries (1.5V) and a multimeter.
> - Step 2: Connect the terminal of batteries as shown in the above figure. (Positive terminal of one battery with the negative terminal of another.)
> - Step 3: Connect the end positive and negative terminals of the battery pack to the appropriate probe of the multimeter
> - Step 4: Click the **“Start Simulation”** button to see the result.

```

1.2.	Learning Reflection

Write a brief note about the results of the Series Battery Combination simulation.
We observed that when four 1.5v battery is connected in series connection, the multimeter showed overall voltage of 6v.
Hence, when the batteries are connected in series, the overall voltage across the circuit is the sum of the voltage of the batteries.

```

### 2.	Simulation 2: Simulating Parallel Battery Combination

**2.1.	Simulation**

Refer to the given circuit diagrams and mentioned steps to simulate an electric circuit with a parallel combination of batteries.

<img width="357" height="220" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/43b1b93f-25aa-4899-ba29-6860fe160ddd" />

Figure 3: Parallel Battery Combination Circuit Diagram

<img width="263" height="368" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5ea16308-9fea-401d-8733-5bcf7c3fa577" />

Figure 4: Parallel Battery Combination Simulation Circui

> - Step 1: Select and drop four batteries (1.5V), a multimeter and a breadboard.
> - Step 2: Connect the positive and negative terminals of the batteries as shown in the above figure. (Positive terminals of the batteries in one point and the negative terminals in another point.)
> - Step 3: Connect the positive and negative terminals of the battery pack to the appropriate probe of the multimeter
> - Step 4: Click the “Start Simulation” button to see the result.

```
**2.2.	Learning Reflection**

Write a brief note about the results of the Parallel Battery Combination simulation.
We observed that when four 1.5 V batteries were connected in parallel connection the multimeter showed an overall voltage of 1.5 V. Hence, when the batteries are connected in parallel the overall voltage across the circuit remains the **same as the voltage of a single battery while the current capacity increases allowing the batteries to supply power for a longer duration.

```
### 3.	Simulation 3: Simulating a simple electric circuit
**3.1.	Simulating a simple electric circuit by connecting components directly.**

Refer to the given circuit diagrams and mentioned steps to simulate a simple electric circuit.

Create a corresponding circuit with specific components as shown in the following circuit diagram and try to simulate the circuit by changing the resistance value of the resistor. The intensity of LED light must vary while changing the resistance of the resistor.

<img width="349" height="337" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/162c71ab-70ce-41f5-bd4d-d8a011ac6263" />

Figure 5: Simple Circuit Diagram	 

<img width="403" height="186" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5060d78c-6397-48a4-8ef5-8c81f86afd9b" />

Figure 6: Simple simulation Circuit

> - Step 1: Select and drop a battery (9V), a resistor, an electric switch (slideswitch) and a LED.
> - Step 2: Connect the components as shown in the above figure.
> - Step 3: Click the “Start Simulation” button and then click on the switch to see the result.
> - Step 4: Change the resistor's resistance to see if it affects the LED's intensity. 

```
**2.2.	Learning Reflection**

Write a brief note about the results of simulating a simple electric circuit by connecting components directly..
We observed that when a 9V battery resistor switch and LED were connected in a simple circuit the LED glowed when the switch was turned on indicating current flow through the circuit. When the resistance value was increased the LED brightness decreased and when the resistance was lowered the LED glowed brighter. Hence, we conclude that the resistor controls the current flow and the intensity of the LED depends on the amount of current passing through it.
```

**3.2.	Simulating a simple electric circuit by using a breadboard to connect components.**

`As shown in the given figure, use a breadboard to connect components used in the simulation circuit of 3.1.`

<img width="744" height="319" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3330931c-e529-4e68-a16e-e526f07d1364" />

Figure 7: Using a breadboard to connect components.

```
**3.2.	Learning Reflection**

Write a brief note on the results observed while changing the resistor’s resistance in the simulation. What about direction of LED connected?


```
### 4.	Simulation 4: Simulating Voltage Divider Circuit
Create a corresponding circuit with specific components as shown in the following circuit diagram and try to simulate the circuit.

<img width="473" height="437" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6fbab02c-1541-4636-a86b-e34d726b4981" />
Figure 8: Voltage Divider Circuit
  	
Complete the provided circuit and verify Voltage divider Rule. Set 10 in Voltage and 5 as Current in the Power Supply.

1.	Change the Resistance Value R2 (Connected to GND/ 0 V) where R1 is set at `1 Kohm`
2.	Calculate the Output Voltage according to Voltage Divider Formula:
   
`Voltage Value Calculate together with Resistance Value with R2:`

a.	R2: ________________ V: _____________    Measured Voltage: ________________

b.	R2: ________________ V: _____________    Measured Voltage: ________________

c.	R2: ________________ V: _____________    Measured Voltage: ________________

Commit message:

Simulating a simple electric circuit by using a breadboard to connect components

README.md, after:

# workshop-week-2

## **Online Circuit Simulation**

### **1.	Simulation 1: Simulating Series Battery Combination**

**1.1.	Simulation**

Refer to the given circuit diagrams and mentioned steps to simulate an electric circuit with a serial combination of batteries.

<img width="362" height="190" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/413c199b-6001-428a-8e6d-302e0a8a8b82" />

Figure 1: Series Battery Combination Circuit Diagram	 

<img width="328" height="323" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/734c0e1a-2aae-4bf2-92bc-2b793fb43951" />

Figure 2: Series Battery Combination Simulation Circuit

``Note: The colour of the wires can be customized as your own preferences.``

> - Step 1: Select and drop four batteries (1.5V) and a multimeter.
> - Step 2: Connect the terminal of batteries as shown in the above figure. (Positive terminal of one battery with the negative terminal of another.)
> - Step 3: Connect the end positive and negative terminals of the battery pack to the appropriate probe of the multimeter
> - Step 4: Click the **“Start Simulation”** button to see the result.

```

1.2.	Learning Reflection

Write a brief note about the results of the Series Battery Combination simulation.
We observed that when four 1.5v battery is connected in series connection, the multimeter showed overall voltage of 6v.
Hence, when the batteries are connected in series, the overall voltage across the circuit is the sum of the voltage of the batteries.

```

### 2.	Simulation 2: Simulating Parallel Battery Combination

**2.1.	Simulation**

Refer to the given circuit diagrams and mentioned steps to simulate an electric circuit with a parallel combination of batteries.

<img width="357" height="220" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/43b1b93f-25aa-4899-ba29-6860fe160ddd" />

Figure 3: Parallel Battery Combination Circuit Diagram

<img width="263" height="368" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5ea16308-9fea-401d-8733-5bcf7c3fa577" />

Figure 4: Parallel Battery Combination Simulation Circui

> - Step 1: Select and drop four batteries (1.5V), a multimeter and a breadboard.
> - Step 2: Connect the positive and negative terminals of the batteries as shown in the above figure. (Positive terminals of the batteries in one point and the negative terminals in another point.)
> - Step 3: Connect the positive and negative terminals of the battery pack to the appropriate probe of the multimeter
> - Step 4: Click the “Start Simulation” button to see the result.

```
**2.2.	Learning Reflection**

Write a brief note about the results of the Parallel Battery Combination simulation.
We observed that when four 1.5 V batteries were connected in parallel connection the multimeter showed an overall voltage of 1.5 V. Hence, when the batteries are connected in parallel the overall voltage across the circuit remains the **same as the voltage of a single battery while the current capacity increases allowing the batteries to supply power for a longer duration.

```
### 3.	Simulation 3: Simulating a simple electric circuit
**3.1.	Simulating a simple electric circuit by connecting components directly.**

Refer to the given circuit diagrams and mentioned steps to simulate a simple electric circuit.

Create a corresponding circuit with specific components as shown in the following circuit diagram and try to simulate the circuit by changing the resistance value of the resistor. The intensity of LED light must vary while changing the resistance of the resistor.

<img width="349" height="337" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/162c71ab-70ce-41f5-bd4d-d8a011ac6263" />

Figure 5: Simple Circuit Diagram	 

<img width="403" height="186" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5060d78c-6397-48a4-8ef5-8c81f86afd9b" />

Figure 6: Simple simulation Circuit

> - Step 1: Select and drop a battery (9V), a resistor, an electric switch (slideswitch) and a LED.
> - Step 2: Connect the components as shown in the above figure.
> - Step 3: Click the “Start Simulation” button and then click on the switch to see the result.
> - Step 4: Change the resistor's resistance to see if it affects the LED's intensity. 

```
**2.2.	Learning Reflection**

Write a brief note about the results of simulating a simple electric circuit by connecting components directly..
We observed that when a 9V battery resistor switch and LED were connected in a simple circuit the LED glowed when the switch was turned on indicating current flow through the circuit. When the resistance value was increased the LED brightness decreased and when the resistance was lowered the LED glowed brighter. Hence, we conclude that the resistor controls the current flow and the intensity of the LED depends on the amount of current passing through it.
```

**3.2.	Simulating a simple electric circuit by using a breadboard to connect components.**

`As shown in the given figure, use a breadboard to connect components used in the simulation circuit of 3.1.`

<img width="744" height="319" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3330931c-e529-4e68-a16e-e526f07d1364" />

Figure 7: Using a breadboard to connect components.

```
**3.2.	Learning Reflection**

Write a brief note on the results observed while changing the resistor’s resistance in the simulation. What about direction of LED connected?
We observed that with a 1kohm resistor the LED glowed brightly with 2kohm it was dim, and with 3kohm it didn't glow because of high resistance. Without a resistor the LED was very bright but got damaged. Also if the LED is connected in the wrong direction it doesn’t glow since the anode must connect to the positive side and the cathode to the negative side.

```
### 4.	Simulation 4: Simulating Voltage Divider Circuit
Create a corresponding circuit with specific components as shown in the following circuit diagram and try to simulate the circuit.

<img width="473" height="437" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6fbab02c-1541-4636-a86b-e34d726b4981" />
Figure 8: Voltage Divider Circuit
  	
Complete the provided circuit and verify Voltage divider Rule. Set 10 in Voltage and 5 as Current in the Power Supply.

1.	Change the Resistance Value R2 (Connected to GND/ 0 V) where R1 is set at `1 Kohm`
2.	Calculate the Output Voltage according to Voltage Divider Formula:
   
`Voltage Value Calculate together with Resistance Value with R2:`

a.	R2: ________________ V: _____________    Measured Voltage: ________________

b.	R2: ________________ V: _____________    Measured Voltage: ________________

c.	R2: ________________ V: _____________    Measured Voltage: ________________
